# 基于Web攻击的异常检测

Gustavo Miguel Barroso Assis do Nascimento

MESTRADO EM SEGURANÇA INFORMÁTICA

November 2010

## 摘要

要成功阻止攻击, 建立一个全面和精准的检测系统是至关重要的.
基于特征的入侵检测系统(IDS)是其中最为流行的一种方法,
但是对于基于Web的或者新型攻击的检测, 这些方法还不够令人满意.
本项目的目标是研究和设计一种能够检测这类攻击的异常入侵检测系统.

Anomaly-based IDS can create a model of normal behavior from a set of training data, and then use it to detect novel attacks. In most cases, this model represents more instances than those in the training data set, a characteristic that we designate as generalization and which is necessary for accurate anomaly detection. The accuracy of such systems, which deter- mines their effectiveness, is considerably influenced by the model building phase (often called training), which depends on having data that is free from attacks resembling the nor- mal operation of the protected application. Having good models is particularly important, or else significant amounts of false positives and false negatives will likely be generated by the IDS during the detection phase.
This dissertation details our research on the use of anomaly-based methods to detect attacks against web servers and applications. Our contributions focus on three different strands: i) advanced training procedures that enable anomaly-based learning systems to perform well even in presence of complex and dynamic web applications; ii) a system comprising sev- eral anomaly detection techniques capable of recognizing and identifying attacks against web servers and applications and iii) an evaluation of the system and of the most suitable techniques for anomaly detection of web attacks, using a large data set of real-word traf- fic belonging to a web application of great dimensions hosted in production servers of a Portuguese ISP.
Keywords: anomaly detection, intrusion detection, web attacks, computers, networks.

Chapter 1
Introduction
Ever since computers exist, computer networks have not ceased to grow and evolve. It is a known fact that computer networks have become essential tools in the development of most enterprises and organizations in various fields such as banking, insurance, military, etc. The increase in interconnection between several systems and networks has made them accessible by a vast and diversified user population that keeps on growing. The users, known or not, do not always carry good intentions when accessing these networks. They can try to read, modify or destroy critical information or just attack and disturb the system. Since these networks can be potential targets of attacks, making them safe is an important aspect that cannot be ignored. Over the past two decades, the growing number of computer security incidents witnessed in the Internet has reflected the very growth of the Internet itself.
As a facet of the Internet growth, the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) has been widely used throughout the years. Applications are nowadays designed to run as a web service and are deployed across the Internet using HTTP as its standard communication protocol. The success and broad acceptance of web applications shaped a trend suggesting that people will heavily rely of web applications in the years to come. The popularity of such web applications has caught the attention of attackers which try to exploit its vulnerabilities. According to the CSI/FBI Computer Crime and Security Survey of 2005 [1], 95% of the respondent organizations reported having experienced more than 10 incidents related to their web sites.
Additionally, as shown in by the CVE vulnerability trends [2] over a period of five years, the total number of publicly reported web application vulnerabilities rose sharply, to the point where they overtook buffer overflows. Three of the most typical web related attacks which contributed to this trend are: SQL-Injection, Cross Site Scripting (XSS) and Remote
